.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH GO-CLEAN 1 "2022-03-15"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.SH NAME
go-clean \- remove object files and cached files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B go clean
.RB [ \-i ]
.RB [ \-r ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-x ]
.RI [ packages ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Clean removes object files from package source directories.
The go command builds most objects in a temporary directory,
so go clean is mainly concerned with object files left by other
tools or by manual invocations of go build.
.P
If a package argument is given or the \-i or \-r flag is set,
clean removes the following files from each of the
source directories corresponding to the import paths:
.TP
.B _obj/
old object directory, left from Makefiles
.TP
.B _test/
old test directory, left from Makefiles
.TP
.B _testmain.go
old gotest file, left from Makefiles
.TP
.B test.out
old test log, left from Makefiles
.TP
.B build.out
old test log, left from Makefiles
.TP
.B *.[568ao]
object files, left from Makefiles

.TP
.B DIR(.exe)
from go build
.TP
.B DIR.test(.exe)
from go test \-c
.TP
.B MAINFILE(.exe)
from go build MAINFILE.go
.TP
.B *.so
from SWIG
.P
In the list, DIR represents the final path element of the
directory, and MAINFILE is the base name of any Go source
file in the directory that is not included when building
the package.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-i
The \-i flag causes clean to remove the corresponding installed
archive or binary (what \(oqgo install\(cq would create).
.TP
.B \-n
The \-n flag causes clean to print the remove commands it would execute,
but not run them.
.TP
.B \-r
The \-r flag causes clean to be applied recursively to all the
dependencies of the packages named by the import paths.
.TP
.B \-x
The \-x flag causes clean to print remove commands as it executes them.
.TP
.B \-cache
The \-cache flag causes clean to remove the entire go build cache.
.TP
.B \-testcache
The -testcache flag causes clean to expire all test results in the
go build cache.
.TP
.B \-modcache
The \-modcache flag causes clean to remove the entire module
download cache, including unpacked source code of versioned
dependencies.
.TP
.B \-fuzzcache
The \-fuzzcache flag causes clean to remove files stored in the Go build
cache for fuzz testing. The fuzzing engine caches files that expand
code coverage, so removing them may make fuzzing less effective until
new inputs are found that provide the same coverage. These files are
distinct from those stored in testdata directory; clean does not remove
those files.
.P
For more about build flags, see \fBgo-build\fP(1).
.P
For more about specifying packages, see \fBgo-packages\fP(7).
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Michael Stapelberg <stapelberg@debian.org>
and is maintained by the
Debian Go Compiler Team <team+go-compiler@tracker.debian.org>
based on the output of \(oqgo help clean\(cq
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
