.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.de Vb \" Begin verbatim text
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve \" End verbatim text
.ft R
.fi
..
.TH GO-GET 1 "2021-10-15"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.SH NAME
go-get \- add dependencies to current module and install them
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B go get
.RB [\|\-d\|]
.RB [\|\-t\|]
.RB [\|\-u\|]
.RB [\|\-v\|]
.RI [ "build flags" ]
.RI [ packages ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Get resolves its command-line arguments to packages at specific module versions,
updates go.mod to require those versions, downloads source code into the
module cache, then builds and installs the named packages.
.P
To add a dependency for a package or upgrade it to its latest version:

.Vb 6
\&        go get example.com/pkg
.Ve
.P
To upgrade or downgrade a package to a specific version:

.Vb 6
\&        go get example.com/pkg@v1.2.3
.Ve
.P
To remove a dependency on a module and downgrade modules that require it:

.Vb 6
\&        go get example.com/mod@none
.Ve
.P
See https://golang.org/ref/mod#go-get for details.
.P
The 'go install' command may be used to build and install packages. When a
version is specified, 'go install' runs in module-aware mode and ignores
the go.mod file in the current directory. For example:

.Vb 6
\&        go install example.com/pkg@v1.2.3
\&        go install example.com/pkg@latest
.Ve
.P
See 'go help install' or https://golang.org/ref/mod#go-install for details.
.P
In addition to build flags (listed in 'go help build') 'go get' accepts the
following flags.
.TP
.B \-t
The -t flag instructs get to consider modules needed to build tests of
packages specified on the command line.
.TP
.B \-u
The -u flag instructs get to update modules providing dependencies
of packages named on the command line to use newer minor or patch
releases when available.
.TP
.BI \-u= patch
The -u=patch flag (not -u patch) also instructs get to update dependencies,
but changes the default to select patch releases.
.P
When the -t and -u flags are used together, get will update
test dependencies as well.
.TP
.B \-d
The \-d flag instructs get not to build or install packages. get will only
update go.mod and download source code needed to build packages.
.P
Building and installing packages with get is deprecated. In a future release,
the \-d flag will be enabled by default, and 'go get' will be only be used to
adjust dependencies of the current module. To install a package using
dependencies from the current module, use 'go install'. To install a package
ignoring the current module, use 'go install' with an @version suffix like
"@latest" after each argument.
.P
For more about modules, see https://golang.org/ref/mod.
.P
For more about specifying packages, see \fBgo-packages\fP(7).
.P
This text describes the behavior of get using modules to manage source
code and dependencies. If instead the go command is running in GOPATH
mode, the details of get's flags and effects change, as does 'go help get'.
See 'go help gopath-get' or \fBgo-gopath-get\fP(1).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR go-build (1),
.BR go-install (1),
.BR go-clean (1).
.BR go-mod (1).
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page and is maintained by the 
Debian Go Compiler Team <team+go-compiler@tracker.debian.org>
based on the output of 'go help get'
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
