.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.de Vb \" Begin verbatim text
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve \" End verbatim text
.ft R
.fi
..
.TH GO-PACKAGES 7 "2021-09-06"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.SH NAME
go \- tool for managing Go source code
.SH DESCRIPTION
Many commands apply to a set of packages:

.Vb 6
\&      go action [packages]
.Ve

.P
Usually, [packages] is a list of import paths.
.P
An import path that is a rooted path or that begins with
a . or .. element is interpreted as a file system path and
denotes the package in that directory.
.P
Otherwise, the import path P denotes the package found in
the directory DIR/src/P for some DIR listed in the GOPATH
environment variable (For more details see: 'go help gopath').
.P
If no import paths are given, the action applies to the
package in the current directory.
.P
There are four reserved names for paths that should not be used
for packages to be built with the go tool:
.IP \[bu] 2
"main" denotes the top-level package in a stand-alone executable.
.IP \[bu]
"all" expands to all packages found in all the GOPATH
trees. For example, 'go list all' lists all the packages on the local
system. When using modules, "all" expands to all packages in
the main module and their dependencies, including dependencies
needed by tests of any of those.
.IP \[bu]
"std" is like all but expands to just the packages in the standard
Go library.
.IP \[bu]
"cmd" expands to the Go repository's commands and their
internal libraries.
.P
Import paths beginning with "cmd/" only match source code in
the Go repository.
.P
An import path is a pattern if it includes one or more "..." wildcards,
each of which can match any string, including the empty string and
strings containing slashes. Such a pattern expands to all package
directories found in the GOPATH trees with names matching the
patterns.
.P
To make common patterns more convenient, there are two special cases.
First, /... at the end of the pattern can match an empty string,
so that net/... matches both net and packages in its subdirectories, like net/http.
Second, any slash-separated pattern element containing a wildcard never
participates in a match of the "vendor" element in the path of a vendored
package, so that ./... does not match packages in subdirectories of ./vendor
or ./mycode/vendor, but ./vendor/... and ./mycode/vendor/... do.
Note, however, that a directory named vendor that itself contains code
is not a vendored package: cmd/vendor would be a command named vendor,
and the pattern cmd/... matches it.
See golang.org/s/go15vendor for more about vendoring.
.P
An import path can also name a package to be downloaded from
a remote repository. Run 'go help importpath' for details.
.P
Every package in a program must have a unique import path.
By convention, this is arranged by starting each path with a
unique prefix that belongs to you. For example, paths used
internally at Google all begin with 'google', and paths
denoting remote repositories begin with the path to the code,
such as 'github.com/user/repo'.
.P
Packages in a program need not have unique package names,
but there are two reserved package names with special meaning.
The name main indicates a command, not a library.
Commands are built into binaries and cannot be imported.
The name documentation indicates documentation for
a non-Go program in the directory. Files in package documentation
are ignored by the go command.
.P
As a special case, if the package list is a list of .go files from a
single directory, the command is applied to a single synthesized
package made up of exactly those files, ignoring any build constraints
in those files and ignoring any other files in the directory.
.P
Directory and file names that begin with "." or "_" are ignored
by the go tool, as are directories named "testdata".
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Michael Stapelberg <stapelberg@debian.org>
and is maintained by the
Debian Go Compiler Team <team+go-compiler@tracker.debian.org>
based on the output of 'go help packages'
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
