.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.de Vb \" Begin verbatim text
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve \" End verbatim text
.ft R
.fi
..
.TH GO-VET 1 "2021-09-06"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.SH NAME
go-vet \- report likely mistakes in packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B go vet
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-x ]
.RB [ \-vettool
.IR prog ]
.RI [ "build flags" ]
.RI [ "vet flags" ]
.RI [ packages ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Vet runs the Go vet command on the packages named by the import paths.
.P
For more about vet and its flags, see 'go doc cmd/vet'.
.br
For more about specifying packages, see \fBgo-packages\fP(7).
.br
For a list of checkers and their flags, see 'go tool vet help'.
.br
For details of a specific checker such as 'printf', see 'go tool vet help printf'.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-n
The \-n flag prints commands that would be executed.
.TP
.B \-x
The \-x flag prints commands as they are executed.
.TP
.BI \-vettool= prog
The \-vettool=prog flag selects a different analysis tool with alternative
or additional checks.
.br
For example, the 'shadow' analyzer can be built and run using these commands:

.Vb 6
\&  go install golang.org/x/tools/go/analysis/passes/shadow/cmd/shadow
\&  go vet \-vettool=$(which shadow)
.Ve
.P
The build flags supported by go vet are those that control package resolution
and execution, such as \-n, \-x, \-v, \-tags, and \-toolexec.
For more about these flags, see 'go help build'.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR go-fmt (1),
.BR go-fix (1).
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
This manual page was written by Michael Stapelberg <stapelberg@debian.org>
and is maintained by the
Debian Go Compiler Team <team+go-compiler@tracker.debian.org>
based on the output of 'go help vet'
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
