.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.TH GO 1 "2022-03-15"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.SH NAME
go \- tool for managing Go source code
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B go
.RI command
.RI [ arguments ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The Go distribution includes a command, named \fBgo\fP, that automates the
downloading, building, installation, and testing of Go packages and commands.
.SH COMMANDS
Each command is documented in its own manpage. For example, the \fBbuild\fP
command is documented in \fBgo-build\fP(1). The commands are:
.TP
.B bug
start a bug report
.TP
.B build
compile packages and dependencies
.TP
.B clean
remove object files and cached files
.TP
.B doc
show documentation for package or symbol
.TP
.B env
print Go environment information
.TP
.B fix
update packages to use new APIs
.TP
.B fmt
gofmt (reformat) package sources
.TP
.B generate
generate Go files by processing source
.TP
.B get
add dependencies to current module and install them
.TP
.B install
compile and install packages and dependencies
.TP
.B list
list packages or modules
.TP
.B mod
module maintenance
.TP
.B work
workspace maintenance
.TP
.B run
compile and run Go program
.TP
.B test
test packages
.TP
.B tool
run specified go tool
.TP
.B version
print Go version
.TP
.B vet
report likely mistakes in packages
.P
Use "go help <command>" for more information about a command.
.SH ADDITIONAL HELP TOPICS
.TP
.B buildconstraint
build constraints
.TP
.B buildmode
build modes
.TP
.B c
calling between Go and C
.TP
.B cache
build and test caching
.TP
.B environment
environment variables
.TP
.B filetype
file types
.TP
.B go.mod
the go.mod file
.TP
.B gopath
GOPATH environment variable
.TP
.B gopath-get
legacy GOPATH go get
.TP
.B goproxy
module proxy protocol
.TP
.B importpath
import path syntax
.TP
.B modules
modules, module versions, and more
.TP
.B module-get
module-aware go get
.TP
.B module-auth
module authentication using go.sum
.TP
.B packages
package lists and patterns
.TP
.B private
configuration for downloading non-public code
.TP
.B testflag
testing flags
.TP
.B testfunc
testing functions
.TP
.B vcs
controlling version control with GOVCS
.P
Use "go help <topic>" for more information about that topic.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR go-build (1),
.BR go-clean (1).
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Michael Stapelberg <stapelberg@debian.org>
and is maintained by the
Debian Go Compiler Team <team+go-compiler@tracker.debian.org>
based on the output of \(oqgo help\(cq
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
